Testing, testing, testing. January 21, testing,
testing.
2-2-2. January 21, testing, 2-2-2.
This is Friday, the 21st of January, I believe,
sitting in the office with David Brooks Cofer,
Jr., known by everybody here in town as just
Brooks, I believe. And then test yours, sir. All
right, sir. That's correct. Here we are. All
right.
Normally when we begin these, I ask people to give a
brief biographical summary. But in this case,
because you grew up on the campus, I hope that our
interview will concentrate on your growing up in
the campus community. Let's begin by your
recording on this machine for us, your
recollections of your parents' background
before they came to College Station. Where did
they grow up and where did they live? because we
want to get as much information we can about them on
this tape. All right, sir. My father was a native
Kentuckian, born in 1886, graduated
from Center College at Danville, and then took a
teaching job at a small school in Missouri, and
then also another year teaching in Arkansas. and
got the opportunity to come to Texas A&M in 1909,
and he reported for the 1910 session. And of
course, when he came, the problem of girls on the
campus at A&M, he recognized that. And his
introduction to society, I guess, was to the Bryan
400. of which my mother was a member. She was Sarah
Nancy Allen, the daughter of Mr. John Hodges
Allen, the founder of Allen Academy. So she was a
native. At that time, I think Allen Academy had
been in Bryan for something like 20
years or something. I don't know. And so they met
and became... known to each other, and finally
married in 1917. Shortly thereafter, or the next
year, I believe, my sister was born, and Papa and
Mimi, that I called, were living on a campus at 125
Wood Street. And then I came along in 1922, born in
an old four-apartment house on the corner across
from the Duncan home and catty corner from Walton
Hall, which is approximately before you get to the
North Gate area off of the campus. 125 Wood Street
was just two doors down on the same street in front
of what is now called the Dixie Chicken. Oh, that's
a fast background. But the apartment building
where you were born was on the north side of, was it
on the campus? It was on the campus. Oh, opposite
where the Dixie Chicken is today. Very close, you
see, to the Northgate area and right across from
the Duncan home that I knew. who was the manager of
the mess hall. Back up in that, you mentioned the
400 in Bryan. Well, that's what they've always
been known as. Even in my days going through high
school and going through A&M, the local girls were
known as the Bryan 400s. Now, they varied from time
to time due to the ages and the classes that they
would go with at A&M. So if you were known as going
with the Bryan 400, that was one of the local girls.
All right. Was any local girl in the 400, or was that
supposedly a status symbol? That was just a
conglomerate. I mean, that was just what they
called them. My sister was in that because she was
College Station Bryan. And they were known on the
campus as the Bryan 400. Can you recall and
describe anything you remember having heard
about how your dad linked up with A&M? How did he and
A&M know there was a possibility of his coming
here? As I understand it, his degree was in Latin.
And
he ended up an English teacher, but he came as a
Latin teacher, but he taught English. Now, I can
only, I can look in a file that I have. I do have the
letter of his offer to come, and I'll be glad to show
you that off the record, you know, if you'd like to
see that. And he came, and as I recall it, it was...
He was offered a position for nine months at
$1,000. And so at that time, historically, I think
there was a recession shortly after he got out of
college, and that was a golden opportunity. Now,
his graduate work after center college was... Was
at Wisconsin and Chicago. He got his master's
degree at the University of Wisconsin. Okay. He
didn't have a doctoral degree, or did he? No, sir,
he did not have a doctoral degree. And he came, I
assume, on the railroad. Have you heard any
descriptions of what he brought with him? Was it
more than a suitcase? In those days, travelers had
trunks. And I know he had a trunk because it stayed
in the household for years and years after that.
But he came in a trunk, and of course, when he
arrived at College Station, I've never heard him
say much about it, but they had what they called the
Shirley Hotel, which was a bachelor club order
where single instructors could stay. And I think
that's where he first stayed. And that was
located, I think, close to the Aggieland Inn,
which doesn't exist, but in that same area. That'd
be kind of west of where the old Northgate Post
Office is now. It would be south towards, well, not
far from the president's home. You're right. The
one that burned. The one that burned in that area, I
think is where it was. All right. And so he teaches
here then beginning in 1910
for the rest of his active career. That's true. And
he retired in 1957. 1957. As an archivist, that was
his final position at A&M. As far as you are aware,
what course or courses did he most enjoy teaching?
Well, in those days, the English department was
more or less, I don't know what academically they
call it. It was just a coincidental department for
the study of agriculture and engineering. And at
that time, they had freshman English and they had
sophomore English. And then for the more advanced
classes, they had report writing, public
speaking, you see. Well, that's all changed now.
But he was sophomore literature and sophomore
English, I guess, were his main courses. Did you
ever hear him express his feelings about A&M and
A&M students? Well, he was quite known, I think, by
the former students who would come back and make
contact with him. And he got a great deal of
pleasure out of hearing from them when he became
the archivist, because they would know about the
old times and they would contact him and express
appreciation for what he was doing, trying to
collect some history about the university. And
they also assisted him because at that time the
archivist was underwritten more by the
association of former students than it was the
university. So he had a great deal of contact with
his former students like Mr. J. Harold Dunn, who
was on the board, as I recall, was one of them that he
had a lot of contact with, and others. Let me throw
in an anecdote on J. Harold Dunn to get it recorded.
I happened to be the master of ceremonies when the
Kruger Dunn dormitory complex was dedicated, and
I learned that Mr. Dunn's wife had grown up in a
little town named Garland. where I lived until I
was 10 and where my parents grew up. And her name, if
I'm not mistaken, her maiden name was Louise
McCollum. And I asked my dad if he had known a girl
with that name. He was sure. She was almost related
to us, you know, kind of second cousin once removed
sort of. I said, whatever happened to her dad? He
said, well, we kind of lost touch. She married some
little bitty guy and he went off to somewhere up in
the panhandle. I never heard of anything that he
ever did. And I said, well, let me tell you what Mr.
J. Harold Dunn accomplished with the founding of
what is now Shamrock Oil. He did OK. Let's see. Your
dad was not the first archivist, was he? Was either
Papa Oz or Mr. Ernest Langford. Oh, no, he precedes
Mr. So your dad was. I believe he was, yes. But Mr.
Lankford did a very good job, too. Oh, you bet. As
your memory begins, where did the English
department office, where were... Third floor of
the academic building. Not the, well, that was the
building, the academic building is the building
with the dome, you see. Yes, yes. The
administration building is further east, so
built in the 30s. But it was on the third floor of the
academic building. All right, now let's start
with your memories. You said you were born. Of
course, they tell me that, you see. I guess my early
memories begin when I was going to A&M
Consolidated School. It was a stucco building on
the campus that later became a music hall, and it
was right at the end of the Joe Routt Boulevard to
the east. There was a two-story stucco building
there. And immediately behind us was the pastures
for the Animal Industries Department, and I went
to first grade through seventh grade there. And
then from the seventh grade, we went to high
school. We had no middle school, but we went up
towards the academic building in an old dormitory
called Pfeiffer Hall. Pfeiffer Hall was between
the academic building and the physics building.
So we were given that location for the high school.
And I attended there. and finished in 1939, then
went to A&M. But the early recollections would be
in grammar school there at, well, the old A&M
Consolidated High School, I mean school. As far as
you recall, about how many first graders were
there when you were a first grader? Was it one room
or two rooms? A&M Consolidated at that time, had
students coming from the rural communities, like
Wellborn. And then down close to Wellborn was Men
of Springs. They came from all over. That's why it
was consolidated. But in our class, we'd have 25
students. So was there one teacher full-time for
the first grade? That's correct. And her name was
Ms. Fred L. Sloop. S-L-O-O-P. S-L-O-O-P. Was she,
by chance, a faculty wife? No. I think her husband,
as best I recall, was a teacher in the Bryan school
system. And she taught out at Consolidated and was
known for the Sloop method of... learning to read.
It was a phonetic system. And that's what she was
famous for. Now, of your, of those years that you
were in first through 11 grades, for someone your
and my age, we weren't in 12th grade system yet,
about what percentage were faculty kids, faculty
and staff kids? Half.
I would say that's a fair estimate. Of course, you
know, they weren't maybe from the faculty homes,
but there were a lot of auxiliary homes and
families that were connected with the college,
like the Building and Grounds Department. They
provided any number of houses on the campus for
those positions, like the head of the power plant,
Mr. Mousner, had children going to, and the other
employees of the buildings and ground department
had children that also went, you see. So there were
any number, but a great deal of them came from the
rural outlying areas. Now, as your memory begins,
kindergarten or first grade? No kindergarten. We
went to the first grade, no kindergarten. Where
did you all live as your first grader? We lived at
125 Wood Street, which was right in front of Walton
Hall. And I would walk to school. And I would come
home at lunch for a noon meal and go back to school
walking and then come home in the afternoon. What
did you and your friends do for fun? For fun.
Describe the play activities of youngsters.
Well, we had to make up fun sometimes. Like I
remember in the summer time, Our next door
neighbor was Mr. J.W. Mitchell in the math
department. And he was a great entertainer, but he
also would set up a game of washers where we could
participate and we would challenge each other and
then we would pass the cup around as each victor was
determined. And I remember joining with me in that
activity was John Sancet, who lived just down
below us in what we call the pecan orchard. His
father was in the CE department. And in the
summertime, while we would have these washer
matches and challenge each other and then let Mr.
Mitchell also participate in it with us. Now we had
a great deal of time, fun doing that. I remember
John was able to drive sooner than I was able to
drive and his family had a car and on some Saturday
afternoons while we would take 25 to 50 cents to go
to town to see the movies. But there was always
something that if it weren't organized that we
would find time to do. Who were, in elementary
school, who were your closest friends? I guess the
closest friend that our family had was the C.B.
Camel family. Dr. Camel was taught modern
languages, and he was my age, and we went to the same
Union Sunday School in the bottom of Gahn Hall, and
naturally we went to a consolidated school. And
his sister was the same age as my older sister, so we
were families and were always very familiar with
them. They lived on the south side of the campus off
of the drill field between the
road to the old post office and Kyle Field. There's
a block there of campus housing. And they lived in
that area and in the back of them were the tennis
courts that they were built for the students. So I
would say that
C.B. Campbell, Jr., F.W. Hensel, Jr., who lived
just up the street from him, was a little older than
we were. But in my particular age group, there was
Margaret Ann Williams, Dr. D.W. Williams'
daughter. Then there was Lucille Thornton, who
married Allen Maidley and lived around the corner
from them. Virginia Jones lived on the same block
there. And then the Winklers lived not far around
the corner. We were all a group that went through
grade school together and high school. What were
the social activities of your parents and their
friends, what were their social activities on the
campus or in the neighborhood? I guess the main
social activity was in the summertime when you
would be sitting out on the lawn, somebody would
walk by and come in and visit with you. We didn't
have air conditioning in those days, but that was
the way to kind of cool off before nightfall. And
Mr. A. Mitchell around the corner or anybody, Mr.
Marburger. Mr. Marburger was the greatest
storyteller that ever hit A&M campus. And he was
head of the buildings and grounds. And it was
really fun to listen to the stories that he would
tell. I can't remember, but he was a great
storyteller. Did these stories have any common
theme? They were just stories of his activity and
experiences that he had. But he was a great
storyteller. His daughter Billy May Marburger,
oh, now, what can I think of? Still lives around.
And she lived, they lived over not far from the
entrance to Kyle Field, in that other block,
immediately where the MSC is now, in that block.
That was solid campus housing in those days. And
they lived there.
But I can remember it was always funny and
enjoyable for me to sit and listen to those
stories.
They had a faculty club, as I recall. They had
dinners every so often. And I think they may have
had faculty dances in the mess hall, but I don't
think my parents participated much. What about
bridge clubs? They had a bridge club, the Little
Bridge Club, they called it, that was made up of 12
ladies. And as I recall, they didn't play for
points. But, well, they did play for points, but
they wouldn't play for any kind of nickel or dime on
the side, but they would figure it up at the end of
the season who was the winner and so forth, and
they'd pass the book to that person or something,
as I recall. But in that membership were Mrs.
Camel, Mrs. Hensel, Mrs. Emmy Marstella, Mrs.
Ruth Harrington was a member, and Mrs. Echols was a
member, and Mrs. Abbott,
my mother, and they had 12. And if they had a
vacancy, there was a selection process, you know,
that they had to meet the approval. Were there any
unwritten rules about social life? For example,
could you serve alcoholic beverages at a private
party? You know, I don't recall our ever having
that at home when we lived on the campus. But as I
recall, it was more or less non-alcoholic.
And also, did the men ever play poker? I don't
recall. I'm sure they must have had. I know the
students had poker games. But you don't remember?
But I don't know whether the faculty, but I can
imagine some of them, sometime had some
gatherings. Fred Benson once told me a long time
ago that one of the unwritten rules when he first
arrived here he thought was never get involved in a
divorce. If you have a divorce then resign and go
somewhere else. I think that may have been the rule
of thumb. And he also said that one of the unwritten
rules that he understood was never serve wine or
any other alcoholic beverage with the curtains
open. Yes. I think that's right. The only time you
saw any kind of alcohol was at a football game,
because they would be out-of-town spectators
that would come in, and they would come from
Houston, Dallas, Austin, so forth, and they
brought their own. And I remember when I would go
through the
stadium after a ball game, you could see the effect
of there.
Let's see. Back to your days as a youngster, did you
and your buddies ever attempt any pranks on campus
when you were in elementary or high school? Pranks
were played on us. we'd have tricycles or wagons
that would be in the front yard. And then on April
Fool's Day, we would find them perched up in the
live oak trees in the front yard. And they were put
there by, we know, students
looking for a prank to play. But that happened all
the time. Of course, the students, everything
revolved around campus life, I mean, and the
students were the main,
well, they were the main source of fun or
entertainment that you could have. They had All
Fools Day on April the 1st, where they would dress
up and go to class in really outrageous costumes.
But that was a custom that I think ended during
Colonel Moore's tenure as commandant. And I think
it terminated when he said, all right, we will have
a review of a cadet corps at 11 AM. And at 1 o'clock,
you'll be back in uniform. And that was the end of
it. Now, when that happened, it must have been in
the middle 30s sometime. For you as a youngster
before you are an A&M student, there must have been
some kind of no-nos that you and your buddies knew,
like did you all would not walk down the hallway of
an A&M academic building while classes were
underway, I presume, and that sort of thing. No,
that was the only limitation that I knew about was
that I was never given permission to go in the
dormitory. Oh, okay. I could never go into the
dormitory. And... There was quite an occasion
when school was out, when the term was out, that
various people would go in and see what could be
salvaged from what was thrown away by the students
who had left. But the only thing that was really of
any value made was the coat hangers that they had to
take back over to the North Gate Cleaners to get
some little compensation. So you don't remember
any treasure that somebody found? I do not recall
any. Let's see, you must have had a bicycle. When
did you get a bicycle? I had a bicycle, and I can, you
know, I remember, it's just like getting the
scratch on, the first scratch you get on your new
car, you're going to have some spokes that get
broken in a bicycle. And at that time, Well, at a
later time in high school, it was, I was able to be
the special delivery messenger for the United
States Post Office. The special delivery letters
would come in, and you would then deliver them at
nine cents a letter. And I used my bicycle to
deliver those around the campus to students and to
the offices. That was during the summer months.
And at that time, the post office was a very small
building close to where the Grove is now. At the end
of a street coming down from the MSC, there was a
post office building there. And of course, the
later one was at the north gate. So that old post
office was not very far from the college station.
It was on the railroad. It appeared to be on the
railroad right of way of the Missouri Pacific. The
Missouri Pacific was closer to the campus than the
Southern Pacific. was west, but they paralleled
each other. With your special delivery duties,
what would have been the normal number of special
delivery letters? It depended upon the time. If
somebody wanted to come to A&M and was late towards
the end of the summer, they were getting in
transcripts to the registrar's office. So I would
have any number of deliveries there. Sometimes
when there was a former short course, you know,
they used to have those, there would be quite a
number. But sometimes you might not have over,
from overnight mail, you might not have more than a
half a dozen letters to deliver the next morning.
All right, with all of that huge amount of cash then
you made at nine cents a letter, what did you
normally spend that on? Well, that's hard to say.
Actually, it didn't amount to much, but it
amounted to something, and you just extended it
over into the school year for school purposes.
Let's see, a church in those days, where did the
churches were at the North Gate, except the
Presbyterian, A&M Presbyterian Church met in the
Y Chapel.